I was just down in the grocery store and
I felt ever so slightly ashamed of
myself for being kinda underdressed
and as you see unshaven and it just
occurred to me these same people in this
grocery store as weeks turn into months
and as months turns into years they're
gonna see me again again and a minimum
the security guards at the front of the
grocery store organizing it's probably
probably some of the customers I only
have that bold guy I booked it in before
hey you know what probably I should make
a little bit more of an effort with my
physical appearance when going to the
grocery store Thursday but looking
around it really struck me that none of
these people at my grocery store many of
whom are young and attractive and
seemingly unmarried you know the married
couples you see us you know they're
they're embarrassed none of them are
looking at one another as anything other
than an obstacle to getting the next
item off the next shelf in the next
aisle and I don't just mean there's like
a difference in the vibe between this
grocery store and say hanging out at a
nightclub or going to eight singles
night at the Buddhist the Buddhist
studies research facility at Oxford
University or Cambridge let me tell you
something there's some but this is a
really eager eye contact going around
when you're now when you're doing
research and Buddhist philosophy you
know there's a contrast from what was
going on at this grocery store and what
I've been familiar with in recent days
and weeks just hanging around airports
hanging around on buses and boats and
trains because you know partly just out
of boredom like when I was when I was on
the boat coming from the mainland to
Vancouver Island I got seriously
interested eye contact from members the
opposite sex and you know I mean
whatever it's partly
the intense period of boredom of them
waiting on that boat to get to the other
side and their imaginations are in a
while or whatever they got nothing
better to look at I'm not that flattered
by it but it really occurred to me
visibly and invisibly the way people
live their lives is transformed because
of the technology of the cellular phone
if any of these people wanted to put
themselves in the frame of mind to meet
somebody new whether as a friend as a
boyfriend as a girlfriend or as a
possible future husband or wife they
would take out their phone and start
flipping through social media whether
that be a dating app or something like
Facebook that's not expressly for dating
but can be used for dating
whether it be tinder or Bumble or
whatever the software the future is that
competes in this category right even
while they're standing there at the
grocery store while they're standing a
line whatever if they're mine if their
imagination starts to turn in that
direction they're gonna direct that
energy in that interest into their cell
phone and not into the other the eyes of
the other strangers who happen to be
standing around them happened to be
picking these out of the store show hey
look there are advantages and there are
disadvantages it's somewhat funny to me
that people meet me on the internet and
think I'm short beep based on it based
on a photograph whether it's on tinder
or a video Kieran on YouTube you don't
know how tall somebody is when people
meet me in real life the first thing
they know about me is my height right
even they don't think about it even
you'll really notice okay
I'm six foot three in the morning when I
get into bed if I'm hunched over and
tired by the end of the day I'm more
like six foot two by the way well you
can lose an inch as the day wears on um
you know the tone of my voice probably
the main thing that makes a first
impression of someone meeting in real
life is the way I speak especially there
slang words English my presenters
someone could get to know me and people
did my first wife when my first wife met
me she met me entirely in terms of texts
I'd written on the internet and a few
still photographs at that time there was
no video of me on the internet there was
no there were no voice clips communion
right she didn't know my tone of voice
she didn't know that stuff the way
somebody walks their physicality the
what it feels like to have eye contact
with them alright in some ways if you
meet someone at the grocery store you
actually know a lot about them that's
meaningful and relevant to whether or
not you feel attracted them that you
can't learn over the internet or you
don't learn easily not even through
tinder not even through Facebook so
there is something there is something
being lost but what I want to draw
attention this video is there's
something being lost at both ends right
like it's not just this this so-called
pickup artist stereotype that changes
like I think like the the chakras
themselves and even this question I
started with should I make a bigger
effort to get dressed to go to the
grocery store like I don't think people
are motivated to do that anymore
because if they were gonna make an
effort to get dressed they'd get dressed
for Instagram they get dressed for
tinder or Facebook they'd get dressed to
present themselves on social media
because that's what they're gonna meet
new people whether those be friends or
romantic connections or what have you
there's no point getting dressed to go
to the grocery store I knew a guy who
was a real estate agent so this
conversation was more than 20 years ago
when he was probably talking about what
life was like when he was single ten
years before that or something and he
just said to me straight up that when
he's in New York City he goes to all the
bookstores to meet women and he was just
joking in this Semyon
he was exaggerating rather than joking
he said who the hell goes to a bookstore
to buy books
he said when he's in New York City he
goes he goes to meet women and when he
goes he feels the women are their
consumers you know what he's going these
bookstores and all parties know this is
a so
to a place people get dressed up to go
to the bookstore you probably stand
there and you pick you're looking at
books that don't make you look dumb
there's probably a performative aspect
of this but people were going to these
social spaces with this preconceived
notion so melissa is off camera near
melissa two of your grandparents met as
complete strangers at a train station
and so the man who became your
grandfather just straight-up hollered at
your grandmother a meal sorry in modern
parlance you know okay you look good
what's up you know whatever I don't know
what pick-up line to use right there's
meaning but like you know it's not just
that it takes two to tango it takes a
whole culture built around that a whole
set of expectations which probably
includes what you wear when you go to
the train station and mentally how
prepared you are to talk to strangers it
looks like and one of the reasons why I
tell people not to do this pickup artist
[ __ ] and by the way I've been in the
position of women trying to pick me up
and I'm like you have no idea what's on
my mind
you have no idea what I'm dealing with
you have no idea how poor family
uninterested I am in being flirted with
or flattered or dealing with you today
lady and it doesn't even matter how
good-looking or it's like that's my
mindset because I'm dealing with stuff
you don't even know but like these
people at the grocery store they are not
gonna be in a frame of mind to meet you
and get to know you and get to know
somebody which is fine it's totally your
right you know but again when Melissa's
grandparents were young they were going
to the train station and they were
probably going to the grocery store or
the market that might actually gee I
didn't even think of this for turning on
the camera but you know so when ID
humanitarian work in Laos I was in one
of the last parts of the world with
intact rainforest jungle it was being
cut down day by day I saw the jungle
being cut down I was in one of the last
parts of the world with no electricity
and no internet and really zero
telecommunications there on the border
between Laos and Myanmar some people
were living in tribal conditions some
people were living in more
village conditions you went to I went to
a market this market was nothing but
bamboo shacks sheds for people to
display there were can't even I don't
want to describe very very simple very
primitive bamboo structures in the
middle of the jungle and there's the
river on one side people come upon their
boats so there was and you know all the
young people from miles around would
come there to meet new boyfriends and
girlfriends and you know in this culture
in these primitive conditions you're
talking about like 15 year-olds you know
which because they get married at 16 and
17 and something you know so they're
dating at 15 and then they're getting
married young and again this is one of
the not even maybe the big cities in
Laos something like that that's the real
countryside where people are still it's
not just that they're farmers they're
still hunters and gatherers and you know
they come and they come to the market
you'd see them glancing each other you
know we saw this is one of the reasons
because otherwise they're living in
complete isolation just with their
family on the top of a mountain or
sometimes literally in a cave or what
have you I just say these are the last
people in the world those conditions so
obviously if you go back to medieval
Europe or something it's gonna be even
more extreme this is your chance to meet
and interact with a stranger period so
mentally get yourself you know into a
space where you're gonna meet someone to
introduce yourself and learn who they
are a song but if you're not going out
with that energy if you're not going
with that but this is what I thought it
before during on the campus that I
didn't think it this is what I really
want to talk about was there was a time
when I traveled the world and everywhere
I went people asked me for directions
and they always wanted more than
directions you know I'd be living in VN
Chen the capital city of Laos and French
tourists would come up to me and say hi
you know do you know the way to the
Military Museum and I said oh yes the
Military Museum I know it and I
described and it's not that easy to get
to your discovery of it and then the
French tourists would say oh I can tell
you live here you know like you're not
just tourists like me tell me how long
have you lived here why didn't you
choose silver they would really want to
get to
you as the sources and information
obviously I'm a white english-speaking
person living there I'm not just a local
person what kind of work do you do here
and you know and sometimes didn't want
to invite you to have coffee or have
pizza or what have you and maybe twice I
pretended to be Russian and that I
didn't speak English well sir asking you
for help this way because I had other
things to do
I really what didn't want to hang around
but you know my point is not just that
you know the Mac applications on
cellphones like Google Maps Apple maps
it's not just that those have removed
the necessity for people to ask for
directions but parallel to the change in
the look in people's eyes when they go
grocery shopping then now grocery
shopping is just about groceries right
in the same way now when I travel
nobody's trying to meet anybody nobody's
trying to socialize think we're not even
like at a hostel not even at like a
social space at a hostel not even Hugh
sign up for a group tour I can remember
that I remember you sign up for group
tour where they explain the history of
you other people were there to meet you
know who else is living who else
interests in this history there was more
of a social element today if they want
that they're joining a Facebook group or
they're signing up for something on the
internet when they put themselves in the
frame of mind to introduce themselves
and say hey that's who I am who are you
to get to know people they're doing that
entirely on the internet not
face-to-face not in real life
so I mean to an increasing extent I've
got to tell you world travel has become
a lonely isolated and isolated pastime
you know and it used to be it really
used to be again I was someone who knew
the local language and I knew the
history and I knew the cola text and I
lived there and work there but I mean it
used to be if I made my way past say
three train stops in Thailand like I was
going up to
who bond ratchathani in one of these
obscure places a whole long series of
people would have conversations with me
and that would sometimes include other
white people who had chosen to live
there permanently
you know foreigners were there
temporarily as tourists who could
include by the way Chinese or Japanese
tourists would have to include local
people there was this whole kind of
range of characters and it's true I'd
have to kind of mentally you know you
couldn't be too tired or crabby or
something I even at the train station he
wasn't sitting down waiting for gin can
I have to mentally prepare yourself you
know for the social aspect of travel of
course at the hotel in any of those
public spaces you know and that is
draining out of public life and they
look I said earlier there are certain
things you learn about somebody meeting
them face to face in a grocery store
that you wouldn't learn right away on
social media their height the tone of
their voice but look in their eye the
eye contact there's certain things you
pick up on okay the other thing you
learn is they live in your neighborhood
and we all know the ultimate absurdity
of making friends the Internet is you
might meet the most fascinating person
in the world but they Lea they live
3,000 kilometers away or 2,000 miles
away or whatever the case may be so
what's the point right someone you maybe
have half as much in common with but who
goes to your grocery store it's probably
you know more worth knowing for you so
you know in many ways I revel in the
advantages of this new digital age I
think it's great that I'm not stuck
being friends with the schlemiel who
happened to be assigned to the same
classroom I was assigned to in high
school you know where that's your only
social you so that whole life and it's
so hard to to make it as you said that
if I were to list off the people I
actually had meaningful conversations
with this week Melissa I only know
because the internet Mohammed I only
know because the internet talked to
Genevieve's a little bit talk to Adrian
maybe it's hard to warm to other people
I'm not remembering here
all of you I only know you because the
Internet I don't think I had a
conversation with a single person this
week yeah I did talk to God like though
I didn't talk to a single person this
week whom I met in the gloom I know
today for any reason other than the
Internet so my social circles have
pieced together both you know close
friends and distant acquaintances and
what have you they're all they're all
the result of the internet and I do
value it positively but you've been
watching this channel for a while you
know that where this is going
sociability isn't just linked to your
sex life it's also in a really powerful
and important way linked to political
engagement an organisation to make the
world a better place or a different
place and there are so many issues I do
care about even here in Western Canada
but I don't have the critical mass of
like five people who live here and care
about the future of this neighborhood
and this grocery store for me to get
organized and go to City Hall or get
organized and start a charity here do
something I mean that's our the most
obvious issue here is the drug drug
addiction epidemic you know it would be
easier for me to organize a bunch of
white people who care about the future
of Cambodia I could do that today I have
the connectors of the internet at the
baccarat ministry I know there are some
seemingly obscure issues where the
specialists and the people were
passionate motivators spread all around
the world like veganism probably easier
for me to do a fundraiser form something
within veganism today then to organise
something in my community is centered
around one grocery store and one police
station you know with all the finitude
of it for me to get to know five people
who can find some time to make something
happen here I was invited to give a
lecture at a major vegan and animal
rights conference in New York City I
appreciate the invitation
one of the most important reasons why I
wouldn't spend the time and money to do
that is that it's in New York City so
there's no way I can make the
connections and collaborate with people
in a way that's really getting matter to
my life and our lives positively there's
no real chance of me making the kind of
connection which is possible even if
incredibly unlikely when I'm standing
there in the grocery store and I'm
looking at the shelf full of frozen
vegan junk food and someone else comes
up next to me and they're getting said
Oh I'm vegan you're vegan too